README.md, before:

# BenchmarkWithIndex

Can we optimize https://twitter.com/buhakmeh/status/1291029712458911752 ? That is the question!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Looking at <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Kotlin?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Kotlin</a> and I saw the “withIndex()&quot; method.<br><br>Hey! Why isn&#39;t that in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/csharp?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#csharp</a> ?<br><br>Well, I made it work! What do you <a href="https://twitter.com/dotnet?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@dotnet</a> folks think? <a href="https://t.co/ya7R7LQ0hf">pic.twitter.com/ya7R7LQ0hf</a></p>&mdash; Khalid (@buhakmeh) <a href="https://twitter.com/buhakmeh/status/1291029712458911752?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2020</a></blockquote>

Rules:
* Create a PR that adds your implementation/benchmark.
* Add documentation comments to your `WithIndex` method, explaining why it may (or may not) be faster/better in terms of memory usage.
* The `WithIndex` method *must* use `this IEnumerable<T> enumerable` as a parameter (so no optimization by using an array, for example - the `MicrosoftHighPerf` being the exception here).

## Current results

```
BenchmarkDotNet=v0.12.1, OS=Windows 10.0.19041.388 (2004/?/20H1)
Intel Core i7-7700HQ CPU 2.80GHz (Kaby Lake), 1 CPU, 8 logical and 4 physical cores
.NET Core SDK=3.1.302
  [Host]     : .NET Core 3.1.6 (CoreCLR 4.700.20.26901, CoreFX 4.700.20.31603), X64 RyuJIT
  DefaultJob : .NET Core 3.1.6 (CoreCLR 4.700.20.26901, CoreFX 4.700.20.31603), X64 RyuJIT


|                      Method |       Mean |    Error |   StdDev | Ratio | RatioSD |  Gen 0 | Gen 1 | Gen 2 | Allocated |
|---------------------------- |-----------:|---------:|---------:|------:|--------:|-------:|------:|------:|----------:|
|                    Original | 1,267.6 ns | 32.15 ns | 94.29 ns |  1.00 |    0.00 | 0.4845 |     - |     - |    1520 B |
|           WithIndexAsStruct |   974.7 ns | 19.38 ns | 44.13 ns |  0.76 |    0.07 | 0.0381 |     - |     - |     120 B |
|              WithValueTuple |   973.9 ns | 19.09 ns | 36.77 ns |  0.75 |    0.07 | 0.0381 |     - |     - |     120 B |
|    WithValueTupleAndForEach |   799.6 ns | 15.64 ns | 15.36 ns |  0.65 |    0.04 | 0.0324 |     - |     - |     104 B |
| WithValueTupleAndEnumerator |   829.4 ns | 16.38 ns | 26.45 ns |  0.64 |    0.06 | 0.0324 |     - |     - |     104 B |
|           MicrosoftHighPerf |   411.6 ns |  8.12 ns | 17.14 ns |  0.32 |    0.03 |      - |     - |     - |         - |
```

## Different versions

### `Original`

The original implementation from https://twitter.com/buhakmeh/status/1291029712458911752.

### `WithIndexAsStruct`

As suggested in https://twitter.com/maartenballiauw/status/1291044097235484674,
the `WithIndex{T}` class has been made a struct so it is not allocated
on the managed heap (and does not incur GC).

### `WithValueTuple`

Improves `WithIndexAsStruct` by returning a `ValueTuple` directly 
(instead of `WithIndex{T}`). Cut out the middle person!
        
### `WithValueTupleAndForEach`

Version of `WithValueTuple`, where instead of using a `.Select()`,
a foreach loop is used instead. Assumption is there are fewer
allocations happening.
        
### `WithValueTupleAndEnumerator`

Version of `WithValueTuple`, where instead of using compiler and
runtime magic, we'll use the enumerator directly.
        
### `MicrosoftHighPerf`

Based on [a tweet by @SergioPedri](https://twitter.com/SergioPedri/status/1291330327881879552), uses the [`Microsoft.Toolkit.HighPerformance` package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Toolkit.HighPerformance/).

Commit message:

### `WithCustomArrayEnumerator`
This version returns an enumerable of ValueTuple structs.
However, when the original is an array, we return a custom, lightweight `IndexedArrayEnumerable{T}`"/>`.
This bypasses the compiler-generated `IEnumerable` that is slightly heavier.

README.md, after:

# BenchmarkWithIndex

Can we optimize https://twitter.com/buhakmeh/status/1291029712458911752 ? That is the question!

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Looking at <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/Kotlin?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#Kotlin</a> and I saw the “withIndex()&quot; method.<br><br>Hey! Why isn&#39;t that in <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/csharp?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#csharp</a> ?<br><br>Well, I made it work! What do you <a href="https://twitter.com/dotnet?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@dotnet</a> folks think? <a href="https://t.co/ya7R7LQ0hf">pic.twitter.com/ya7R7LQ0hf</a></p>&mdash; Khalid (@buhakmeh) <a href="https://twitter.com/buhakmeh/status/1291029712458911752?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">August 5, 2020</a></blockquote>

Rules:
* Create a PR that adds your implementation/benchmark.
* Add documentation comments to your `WithIndex` method, explaining why it may (or may not) be faster/better in terms of memory usage.
* The `WithIndex` method *must* use `this IEnumerable<T> enumerable` as a parameter (so no optimization by using an array, for example - the `MicrosoftHighPerf` being the exception here).

## Current results

```
BenchmarkDotNet=v0.12.1, OS=Windows 10.0.19041.388 (2004/?/20H1)
Intel Core i7-7700HQ CPU 2.80GHz (Kaby Lake), 1 CPU, 8 logical and 4 physical cores
.NET Core SDK=3.1.302
  [Host]     : .NET Core 3.1.6 (CoreCLR 4.700.20.26901, CoreFX 4.700.20.31603), X64 RyuJIT
  DefaultJob : .NET Core 3.1.6 (CoreCLR 4.700.20.26901, CoreFX 4.700.20.31603), X64 RyuJIT


|                      Method |       Mean |    Error |   StdDev | Ratio | RatioSD |  Gen 0 | Gen 1 | Gen 2 | Allocated |
|---------------------------- |-----------:|---------:|---------:|------:|--------:|-------:|------:|------:|----------:|
|                    Original | 1,307.6 ns | 27.06 ns | 78.94 ns |  1.00 |    0.00 | 0.4845 |     - |     - |    1520 B |
|           WithIndexAsStruct |   922.5 ns | 18.42 ns | 23.30 ns |  0.70 |    0.05 | 0.0381 |     - |     - |     120 B |
|              WithValueTuple |   964.2 ns | 19.25 ns | 38.89 ns |  0.74 |    0.05 | 0.0381 |     - |     - |     120 B |
|    WithValueTupleAndForEach |   846.3 ns | 16.77 ns | 36.81 ns |  0.64 |    0.05 | 0.0324 |     - |     - |     104 B |
| WithValueTupleAndEnumerator |   864.3 ns | 19.42 ns | 57.25 ns |  0.66 |    0.06 | 0.0324 |     - |     - |     104 B |
|   WithCustomArrayEnumerator |   477.5 ns |  9.51 ns | 21.86 ns |  0.36 |    0.03 | 0.0176 |     - |     - |      56 B |
|           MicrosoftHighPerf |   409.3 ns |  7.85 ns |  8.07 ns |  0.32 |    0.03 |      - |     - |     - |         - |
```

## Different versions

### `Original`

The original implementation from https://twitter.com/buhakmeh/status/1291029712458911752.

### `WithIndexAsStruct`

As suggested in https://twitter.com/maartenballiauw/status/1291044097235484674,
the `WithIndex{T}` class has been made a struct so it is not allocated
on the managed heap (and does not incur GC).

### `WithValueTuple`

Improves `WithIndexAsStruct` by returning a `ValueTuple` directly 
(instead of `WithIndex{T}`). Cut out the middle person!
        
### `WithValueTupleAndForEach`

Version of `WithValueTuple`, where instead of using a `.Select()`,
a foreach loop is used instead. Assumption is there are fewer
allocations happening.
        
### `WithValueTupleAndEnumerator`

Version of `WithValueTuple`, where instead of using compiler and
runtime magic, we'll use the enumerator directly.

### `WithCustomArrayEnumerator`

This version returns an enumerable of ValueTuple structs.
However, when the original is an array, we return a custom, lightweight `IndexedArrayEnumerable{T}`"/>`.
This bypasses the compiler-generated `IEnumerable` that is slightly heavier.
        
### `MicrosoftHighPerf`

Based on [a tweet by @SergioPedri](https://twitter.com/SergioPedri/status/1291330327881879552), uses the [`Microsoft.Toolkit.HighPerformance` package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Toolkit.HighPerformance/).
